1. The graph of a quadratic function f is given.
    1. Find the coordinates of the vertex.
    2. Find the maximum or minimum value of f.

   - $f(x) = -x^2 + 6x - 5$
   - $f(x) = -\frac{1}{2}x^2 - 2x + 6$
   - $f(x) = 2x^2 - 4x - 1$
   - $f(x) = 3x^2 + 6x - 1$

2. A quadratic function is given.
    1. Express the quadratic function in standard form.
    2. Find its vertex and its x- and y-intercept(s).
    3. Sketch its graph.

   - $f(x) = x^2 - 6x$
   - $f(x) = x^2 + 8x$
   - $f(x) = 2x^2 + 6x$
   - $f(x) = -x^2 + 10x$
   - $f(x) = x^2 + 4x + 3$
   - $f(x) = x^2 - 2x + 2$
   - $f(x) = -x^2 + 6x + 4$
   - $f(x) = -x^2 - 4x + 4$
   - $f(x) = 2x^2 + 4x + 3$
   - $f(x) = -3x^2 + 6x - 2$
   - $f(x) = 2x^2 - 20x + 57$
   - $f(x) = 2x^2 + x - 6$
   - $f(x) = -4x^2 - 16x + 3$
   - $f(x) = 6x^2 + 12x - 5$

3. A quadratic function is given.
    1. Express the quadratic function in standard form.
    2. Sketch its graph.
    3. Find its maximum or minimum value.
    
    - $f(x) = 2x - x^2$
    - $f(x) = x + x^2$
    - $f(x) = x^2 + 2x - 1$
    - $f(x) = x^2 - 8x + 8$
    - $f(x) = -x^2 - 3x + 3$
    - $f(x) = 1 - 6x - x^2$
    - $g(x) = 3x^2 - 12x + 13$
    - $g(x) = 2x^2 + 8x + 11$
    - $h(x) = 1 - x - x^2$
    - $h(x) = 3 - 4x - 4x^2$

4. Find the maximum or minimum value of the function.
    - $f(x) = x^2 + x + 1$
    - $f(x) = 1 + 3x - x^2$
    - $f(t) = 100 - 49t - 7t^2$
    - $f(t) = 10t^2 + 40t + 113$
    - $f(s) = s^2 - 1.2s + 16$
    - $g(x) = 100x^2 - 1500x$
    - $h(x) = \frac{1}{2}x^2 + 2x - 6$
    - $f(x) = -\frac{x^2}{3} + 2x + 7$
    - $f(x) = 3 - x - \frac{1}{2}x^2$
    - $g(x) = 2x(x - 4) + 7$

5. Find a function whose graph is a parabola with vertex (1, -2) and that passes through the point (4, 16).

6. Find a function whose graph is a parabola with vertex (3, 4) and that passes through the point (1, -8).

7. Find the domain and range of the function.
    - $f(x) = -x^2 + 4x - 3$
    - $f(x) = x^2 - 2x - 3$
    - $f(x) = 2x^2 + 6x - 7$
    - $f(x) = -3x^2 + 6x + 4$

8. A quadratic function is given.
    1. Use a graphing device to find the maximum or minimum value of the quadratic function f, correct to two decimal places.
    2. Find the exact maximum or minimum value of f, and compare with your answer to part (a)

    - $f(x) = x^2 + 1.79x - 3.21$
    - $f(x) = 1 + x - \sqrt{2}x^2$

9. Find the local maximum and minimum values of the function and the value of x at which each occurs. State each answer correct to two decimal places.
    - $f(x) = x^3 - x$
    - $f(x) = 3 + x + x^2 - x^3$
    - $g(x) = x^4 - 2x^3 - 11x^2$
    - $g(x) = x^5 - 8x^3 + 20x$
    - $U(x) = x\sqrt{6 - x}$
    - $U(x) = x\sqrt{x - x^2}$
    - $V(x) = \frac{1 - x^2}{x^3}$
    - $V(x) = \frac{1}{x^2 + x + 1}$


10. If a ball is thrown directly upward with a velocity of 40 ft/s, its height (in feet) after t seconds is given by $y = 40t - 16t^2$. What is the maximum height attained by the ball?

11. A ball is thrown across a playing field. Its path is given by the equation $y = -0.005x^2 + x + 5$, where x is the distance the ball has traveled horizontally, and y is its height above ground level, both measured in feet.
    1. What is the maximum height attained by the ball?
    2. How far has it traveled horizontally when it hits the ground?

12. A manufacturer finds that the revenue generated by selling x units of a certain commodity is given by the function $R(x) = 80x - 0.4x^2$, where the revenue $R(x)$ is measured in dollars. What is the maximum revenue, and how many units should be manufactured to obtain this maximum?

13. A soft-drink vendor at a popular beach analyzes his sales records, and finds that if he sells $x$ cans of soda pop in one day, his profit (in dollars) is given by $P(x) = -0.001x^2 + 3x - 1800$. What is his maximum profit per day, and how many cans must he sell for maximum profit?

14. The effectiveness of a television commercial depends on how many times a viewer watches it. After some experiments an advertising agency found that if the effectiveness E is measured on a scale of 0 to 10, then $E(n) = \frac{2}{3}n - \frac{1}{90}n^2$ where n is the number of times a viewer watches a given commercial. For a commercial to have maximum effectiveness, how many times should a viewer watch it?

15. When a certain drug is taken orally, the concentration of the drug in the patient's bloodstream after t minutes is given by $C(t) = 0.06t - 0.0002t^2$, where $0 \le t \le 240$ and the concentration is measured in mg/L. When is the maximum serum concentration reached, and what is that maximum concentration?

16. The number of apples produced by each tree in an apple orchard depends on how densely the trees are planted. If n trees are planted on an acre of land, then each tree produces $900 - 9n$ apples. So the number of apples produced per acre is $A(n) = n(900 - 9n)$. How many trees should be planted per acre in order to obtain the maximum yield of apples?

17. A fish swims at a speed v relative to the water, against a current of 5 mi/h. Using a mathematical model of energy expenditure, it can be shown that the total energy E required to swim a distance of 10 mi is given by $E(v) = 2.73v^3 \frac{10}{v - 5}$. Biologists believe that migrating fish try to minimize the total energy required to swim a fixed distance. Find the value of v that minimizes energy required.

18. A highway engineer wants to estimate the maximum number of cars that can safely travel a particular highway at a given speed. She assumes that each car is 17 ft long, travels at a speed s, and follows the car in front of it at the "safe following distance" for that speed. She finds that the number N of cars that can pass a given point per minute is modeled by the function $N(s) = \frac{88s}{17 + 17\left( \frac{s}{20} \right)^2}$. At what speed can the greatest number of cars travel the highway safely?

19. Between $0^\circ\text{C}$ and $30^\circ\text{C}$, the volume V (in cubic centimeters) of 1 kg of water at a temperature T is given by the formula $V = 999.87 - 0.06426T + 0.00850437T^2 - 0.0000679T^3$. Find the temperature at which the volume of 1 kg of water is a minimum.
